Whenever you are planning on creating a website or software deployment for your business, there should be certain questions you should be framing and researching to identify the project requirements. Due to the budget and time constraints for your project, the first thing to deliberate on would be the trade-offs to choose the platform you want your first software to be based on: mobile application, mobile interface website or a computer optimized website. For this purpose, you should base your decision on the following:
1.	Identify you main goal/agenda regarding the proposed project and realizing its necessity? 
2.	Know your audience: The users you are catering and choosing the most convenient platform for the addressed audience.
3.	Prioritizing features: The most important features and requirements of your application/software. For example ( if mobility is a key characteristic, choose mobile based platform)
4.	The return on investment: Is the project worth the money and time you are putting in?

Assumption and testing based planning is important to formulate the hedging actions and construct ‘what-if scenarios’ to deal with uncertainties.  So, It is important to know how you would test them and see if they were successful enough to proceed with the implementation.
Once the platform is identified, and the software team has been deployed for you awesome idea, fine tuning the project requirements effectively is the key to getting a good head start. While developing and propagating effective project requirements, following factors must be taken into account:
1.	Minimum Viable Product: Never aim for having the perfect app/software/website right from the start. Instead developing the most basic model and iterating it along time is the fundamental to a successful project. 
2.	Role-Feature-Reason: Identifying reasons for each feature in simple terms with respect to the benefit it would be bringing to the associated user.
3.	Effective Communication: Simplifying the general requirements and roles for your project to the development team as well as discussing the subtleties regarding each feature right from the start so as to avoid fixing-delays. 
4.	Timeframe architecture (modules and milestones): Break the assigned tasks to get good visibility of the progress. Also, Implement risky modules and functionalities first: if the project is going to fail, it may as well fail at the beginning, before you invest a lot of time and money. Creating milestones would ensure the programmers to focus on deliverables. This way minor forgotten project requirement can be catered alongside.
5.	Involve your audience: Understanding the user’s needs is very important. Get feedbacks from users on regular basis, pick their brains and base the further project requirements and scale your product accordingly.
